>> Speaker 1: Can Scott explain
the pros and cons between Mongo NoSQL,
versus traditional SQL databases
like MS SQL, Oracle, Postgres?
>> Scott Moss: Wow,
>> Scott Moss: I could talk about that for
a week.
And I know everybody says this,
but it really depends on your app.
But I can tell you from practical use from
my experience in the different types of
apps that I've built, the pros and cons.
So pros for Mongo, for me, was that it was
just easier to get started with, without
having to fight a database with all of
its restrictions to get something going.
I mean, you will see, just in a couple
lines we're able to spin up a database and
throw some data in it without having to
think about things like foreign keys and
primary keys and ids and all that stuff.
We're able to just spin something up.
So it's really great to started,
so that's one thing.
Two, it is very flexible.
Although we do have a schema, you saw
in the first attempt when I created
a student, I didn't have to add a first
name, and it just doesn't matter,
cuz it wasn't required.
So it just adds it there and
it won't freak out about it.
So that can be good or bad, but
it's just really flexible to get started.
Three, the other thing that I've realized
is that when it comes to shaping data,
it's really flexible because
it's just JSON by default.
Sure, Postgres now has support for
like JSONB, I think, where you
can just store JSON and Postgres.
But how you create that JSON and
how you store it is two different things.
I don't think you can query the JSON and
Postgres the same way you
could query JSON in Mongo.
Because all the keys are actually fields
in Mongo, whereas in JSON, it's just JSON.
So there's a difference there.
The other thing about Mongo is that it's
kind of built with JavaScript in mind,
and Node in mind.
So it's event-based and
it takes advantage of that architecture,
which is really easy to work with.
So that's why I think Mongoose
itself has one of the best ORMs.
It's promise-based.
It's modern.
It kinda just works with everything.
Whereas a lot of other databases, it's
like, this just wasn't made for Node and
you kinda gotta finesse
it to do a lot of work.
If you've never had to use Postgres
in Node, then good for you.
If you did,
you know what I'm talking about.
And when you get into performance
reasons and scaling and all that stuff,
I think at the higher end,
if you're like Google's of the world,
I think Postgres and
SQL's gonna perform for better.
I think it's just a more
complete database at that end.
I mean, Postgres and
SQL's been around forever.
There's just so much support on it.
It's been ASIC compliant for awhile.
Mongo's getting there,
they're just now becoming ASIC compliant.
They have transactions.
And they're definitely getting there,
but I would say because Postgres and
SQL's been around for much longer, it's
probably just gonna be better for you.
There's just more support for
those types of databases.
I mean, if you go to AWS, there's just so
many different types of SQL databases.
Sure they have Dynamo,
but they also have Aurora,
which is a serverless SQL database.
And pretty much everybody
has some SQL something.
So because of support,
I would say it's probably better if
you're the Googles of the world.
But for everybody else,
I think Mongo is just great.
It's just fantastic to get going.
But yeah, I think it really
depends on your applications.
Because if you have high writes or
low reads or low reads and high writes,
it's really gonna depend on
what the application is and
what type of server it's running on.
Are you running Mongo on Python?
Are you running it on Node?
That really all depends, so it's really
hard to compare apples to apples.
But from my experience,
Mongo has just been a pleasure.
I haven't run into a problem where I was
like, I absolutely need SQL right now.
It's the only solution
that's gonna help me.
I've never run into that problem,
so yeah, yes?
>> Speaker 3: Maybe you answered this,
but what is Mongo written in?
Is it written in C?
Is it written in C++?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah,
>> Scott Moss: It's written in
a lot of things.
[LAUGH] You know what,
I'm not going to try to answer that.
Let's go,
>> Scott Moss: See if we can find that
out right now.
I don't think it is on GitHub.
>> Scott Moss: I wanna say
it's mostly written in C+.
But I know it's written
in a lot of things.
So here we go, yeah, C++.
So it's mostly written in C++, but you can
see, like I said, it's a lot of things.
We got JavaScript, Python, Go, Shell,
Java and then other, whatever that is.
So yeah, it's mostly C++, but yeah,
it's written a lot of things.
And that's why it's a pretty compatible
with JavaScript, because V8, C++.
So yeah, it's a pretty good database.
>> Speaker 4: What are the ideal
situations like, or
applications to use Mongo and
versus relational DB?
>> Scott Moss: Yes, almost every time.
No, that's such a bad answer.
[LAUGH] I feel like I'm
selling Mongo over here.
Like I need a Mongo cape.
I would say for simple apps,
definitely Mongo.
It's just so easier.
The time you save starting and
getting back to the app is just free.
And then any app where the shape changes
constantly, like for instance, a CMS.
If you're building a CMS and
you allow people to create their own
custom shapes and their own custom types,
their own custom schemas, you need
something that can change schemas.
So Mongo's perfect for that,
because it's forgiving.
It's just like, yeah,
you can do whatever you want.
Whereas, if you use
something like Postgres,
you'd have to run a migration every
single time somebody changed one thing.
So it can get pretty annoying and
then developer cost for
that can just be ridiculous,
like running migrations.
If you have some globally
deployed architecture and
you're running migrations on a primary,
now you gotta block everything, and
then you gotta write it concern
to these other databases.
It can just get pretty annoying there.
So I think Mongo is just really good for
those types of applications.
I also think it's really good for
real-time applications, for
things like chats and stuff like that.
It's just perfect because you can
just store the data the exact
same way that you need it without
having any different types of formats.
You can just store an array of things and
it will scale up until it hits
the document collection limit.
Or you can do relational if you want.
So I think those type of
applications are the best.
Yeah, in my opinion.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, but I wouldn't use
it for something like a social network,
where it's like you need graphs, right?
Yeah, you can do graphs look up in Mongo,
and that's really advanced,
but I wouldn't default to a Mongo
database for a graph scenario or
a time series database
where I'm doing analytics.
I wouldn't use it in that scenario.
I would use it pretty much in any scenario
where I'm just building a traditional
application and not something that's
specific to something like graphs,
time series, or something like that, yeah.
>> Speaker 5: Would you recommend it for
e-commerce applications?
>> Scott Moss: It's perfect for
e-commerce applications.
It's basically a CMS, yeah.
It's fantastic for
e-commerce applications, yeah,
those types of apps is where it's good at.
It's just a traditional, hardcore,
not gonna surprise you app.
Nothing that's like you're doing machine
learning models with real-time web sockets
that's spitting out an audit log.
Like no, that's just crazy.
You can do that in Mongo, but
it's gonna be pretty complicated.
>> Speaker 5: Can we
store blob data types?
Like from WSIWYG editors, you can get
a bunch of HTML and stuff combined and
then you can store it in MySQL databases.
>> Scott Moss: Yep, you can store
it in whatever fort type you want.
In fact,
I do that on my application that we built.
We have tons of editors and
we just store it as that.
At the end of the day, you can store
however you want, anyway that you want and
you can run validations on it, too.
>> Speaker 6: So that was sort
of like replications database,
you can [INAUDIBLE]?
>> Scott Moss: Actually,
it uses that for replication, yeah.
So you don't have to do replication
yourself if you use something like
MongoDB Atlas.
There's [INAUDIBLE].
So they do replication for you.
But they use that technique to do
replication, where they have primary,
secondary, secondary.
So yeah, they'll do that for you.
But you can also subscribe to it
yourself and do all types of things.
We use it to actually create
an auto-log on the front end for
activity on a company's profile.
Like, here's everything that users have
been doing in the last 20 days, and
it will just format it and show you.
So we do stuff like that.
So yeah, [LAUGH] if I had to create
a database with something that's two years
old, then, yeah, I would just make sure
I don't have to create a database in
something two years old and
just send it somewhere else.
That should be like an S3
file somewhere I would say.
That way you can just go S3,
give me all the logs from the database for
the last two years for this customer.
And that should be backed up in S3 or
Glacier on AWS, somewhere like that.
>> Speaker 1: Or Redis?
>> Scott Moss: Probably not Redis,
because that's long-term storage.
Redis is just short-term,
in memory, and it's volitile.
It'll be erased once
you restart everything.
You definitely wanna put that in some
cheap storage that's never, almost,
gonna be touched.
So, literally,
Glacier is what AWS uses for that.